# Compuational-Musicology

Corpus of choice: 

10s https://open.spotify.com/playlist/37i9dQZF1DWXbttAJcbphz?si=b6bb55c48eb246ad
90s https://open.spotify.com/playlist/37i9dQZF1DX6VDO8a6cQME?si=24fb911f01014e23


The playlisst I've put together is a collection of 2010s R&B and 1990s R&B tunes generated by Spotify algorithms that is personalized to each usrt. I've gone with tihis particular corpus for a couple of reasons. Firstly, I'm a bit of a fan of theR&B genre, it's what I tend to have a listen to the most and have the most knowledge in.
Secondly, the corpus are generated my Spotify's algorithms, based on the user's listening habits and what Spotify thinks would be essential and representative for the genre of this generation. The mechanism that Spotify uses to generate playlists is known for being effective in uncovering new and exciting tunes. However, However, there's a bit of a myth floating around about whether these playlists are made by humans or algorithms, based on what metrics, and whether commercial interests or money play a role.


The groups that I would like to compare in this corpus is the sub-genres, although they are all categorized as R&B, there are different subgenres in different generations  As I recognized that while most tracks in the 90s RnB are more soulful and slow-tempo in the 1990s rnb, while some tracks in the 2010s are more pop or Hip hop R&B, and some have neo-soul influence etc. By skimming through this playlists, I also noticed that there are a good reprensentative number of 1990s and 2010s R&B artists, however, the tunes that are included in this playlist are not always the most popular or "R&B" ones, some are quite niche songs. For example, there is this song called "Too Much" by Sampha. Although Sampha is known for his alternative R&B/ soul genre, "Too Much" is not strictly an R&B song (it's soul) and it's not popular to the point of being essential and representative to 2010s Rnb as the objective of this playlist. However, this could be due to my own listening habit.

My analysis would focus on the difference, or to say the nuance of the sub-genres in the 90s and 10s RnB tunes. And this project will also attempt to identify some more specific metrics for analysing R&B music, such as soulfullness, swings...

